DevOps DayCamp 2015
===================
:date: 2015-10-29
:author: Amanda Kelner
:slug: devops-daycamp-15
:img: daycamp2015.jpg

In early October, we hosted our second annual DevOps DayCamp to over eighty
students, faculty, and community members, acting as a feeder workshop into the
year long DevOps BootCamp series. Beyond its promotional function, our DayCamp
provided an interactive workshop for those in attendance.

We offered seminars and interactive programs for both beginners and more
advanced participants.

For the beginners, the sessions focused on fundamentals and introductions. We
began with an explanation of DevOps and its functions and moved into the basics
of operating the system, including working with Unix, executing programs and
flagging potential problems. Participants also learned collaborative techniques
featuring IRC and git.

The advanced track provided the opportunity for attendees to interact with a
number of guest speakers, including Mozilla’s K Lars Lohn and Emily Dunham,
Facebook’s Mark Callaghan, and IBM’s Spencer Krum, along with members of the
Open Source Lab staff at Oregon State, including director Lance Albertson,
full-time head of software development Ken Lett, and student system
administrator Daniel Takamori.

To wrap up the festivities, we created our first DevOps Panel, a group of
experts responding to questions about DevOps. Panelists included Trevor
Bramwell, release engineer at the Linux Foundation; Jeffrey Borcean, computer
science undergraduate and system administrator; Jordan Evans, Open Source Lab
systems administrator; and Mike Cooper, Mozilla web developer.

In the coming weeks, our DevOps BootCamp will hold weekly sessions covering
basic software development and system administration skills. The goal is to
give students the skills to contribute to open-source projects. It's free and
open to the community so spread the word. For more information, check out our
website at http://devopsbootcamp.osuosl.org. See you there!
