RTEMS
=====
:slug: rtems
:date: 2016-02-24
:author: Amanda Kelner
:img: windows-on-building.jpg
:tag: featured-stories


Within the last several years, the OSL has provided a home for the Real-Time
Executive for Multiprocessor System, or RTEMS. RTEMS is an open Real-Time
Operating System (RTOS) that supports both open application programming
interfaces (API) and interfacing standards such as Berkeley sockets. Basically,
RTEMS supports the embedded systems in programs, or the combinations of
software and hardware designed to do very specific tasks. RTEMS works in
spaceflight, medical devices, and more. For a while, RTEMS was developed and
hosted by a corporation named OAR where it was continuously developed by its
programmers, however the project was lacking a certain amount of IT expertise.
Enter the fateful meeting between RTEMS developers and our very own Lance
Albertson at a Google Summer of Code Mentor Summit.

Think of this story as though RTEMS grew up and left home, let’s say for
college. After over twenty years living at home (the OAR offices) and multiple
complications that led to the RTEMS project and its community being offline for
extended periods of time, the need to move out was clear. But, as we all know
and hate, moving out isn’t an easy process, especially when you don’t have a
place to go. RTEMS’ parents (or the engineers) are embedded real-time software
engineers, which is perfect for a Real-Time Executive for Multiprocessor
System, but RTEMS needed exposure to other things, in this case IT guys.
Because of this, RTEMS’ growth (or its IT setup) was stunted. Think of it as
the difference between having your parents dress you for picture day and having
your cool aunt dress you for picture day. Both are going to think you look
great, but only one is going to be right. But then, at a “parents” weekend (the
GSoC Mentor Summit), RTEMS’ parents met Lance Albertson, our own director.
Finally, RTEMS had a place to go. Since the move, RTEMS’ old friend buildbot
has moved in and shares a space with RTEMS, and a new friend, NTPsec (Network
Time Protocol secure), has also joined the lab. Sharing the OSL technical
expertise means these projects receive world class network performance. Though
the road was long and harrowing, RTEMS finally has a home here at the OSL.

Now that RTEMS is settled into its new home, the RTEMS community is looking to
expand and develop its networks and projects with the support of the OSL. What
makes RTEMS so special, particularly with big names like NASA and the European
Space Agency (ESA), is its ability to stand up to the test of time. With
projects with lifespans of ten to thirty years, RTEMS needed an infrastructure
that could reflect their own hard work. In this way, our relationship with
RTEMS has been both fruitful for our developers in learning the techniques for
RTEMS’ particular projects, but also beneficial for RTEMS as a way to satisfy
their own projects in ways their developers weren’t able.
