OSL Summer 2016 Internship
==========================
:date: 2016-10-31
:slug: summer-2016-internship
:author: Amanda Kelner
:img: Interns2016-1.jpg
:tag: featured-stories

In a new program, the Oregon State University Open Source Lab (OSL) partnered
with Intel to give community college students an opportunity to get hands-on
experience with open-source projects. This summer, four students interned for 10
weeks at the OSL, working on a variety of projects, including web development
and systems engineering, to advance their skills and knowledge with open-source
work and communities.

“This internship really has been a life-changing experience for me. I think it’s
important to participate in more than just academics,” said Levi Willmeth from
Linn-Benton Community College.

That was exactly what the program organizers were hoping students would get out
of the internship. Additionally, the project sought to increase diversity in the
OSL and Oregon State’s computer science programs.

“We decided to target the community colleges as they are historically more
diverse, but largely underrepresented in these kinds of internships,” said Lance
Albertson, the director of the Open Source Lab.

The internships offered the students experiences beyond what they could have at
their home schools. Intern Hannah Solorzano from Chemeketa Community College had
never worked with open source. In fact, she did not know what it was before
the internship. Although her interest was in cybersecurity, her professor
encouraged her to apply.

“The experience was very beneficial. I got to experiment with different
languages, different platforms, and learned a lot of important tools,” Hannah
said.

The interns also appreciated the experience with a collaborative workflow.
Working in groups is not encouraged in their school courses, so the internship
gave them a sneak peak at the practical execution of real-world projects and
access to collective support and assistance from their coworkers.

This, however, created new challenges for the interns, including Levi who had to
learn to adapt to a group of people working on the same section of code and
adjust to integrated changes that conflicted with his own work. “Those little
moments were where I learned a lot just from working with a team that I would
never pick up on a school assignment,” he said.

The interns spent half their time working on the systems engineering team and
the other half on developer team. The systems projects included internal coding
projects for which the interns learned a variety of tools including Git, and new
coding languages like Ruby, and Chef. The developers project focused on redoing
a website for a local high school. Both projects were works in progress and the
interns were able to jump in with support from coworkers, mentors, and online
documentation, all three of which they used in abundance to assist in their
work.

“It was very difficult in the beginning, especially the first few days because
of all the new tools,” said Elena Torrey, from Clackamas Community College. “I
was worried I would never learn it all, but after the first couple of weeks it
got easier.”

She was not the only one. Hannah said the first two weeks were the most
difficult, and Levi joked he only accomplished about an hour’s worth of work in
the first week. However, by constantly using the skills and tools they learned,
they overcame the initial hurdles and eventually the work grew easier and more
enjoyable.

One of the highlights of the internship was the trip to Prineville, Oregon to
visit the Facebook data center.

“We learned a lot about their innovative cooling system, highly advanced custom-
built servers, and data-storage back-ups,” Elena said. For Levi, the experience
introduced him to the possibility of working at a data center as a future
career.

The internship also encouraged the interns to continue their studies a at four-
year university.

“I wasn’t going to go to Oregon State because of the cost, but after this
internship, I saw how beautiful the campus was and the engineering program is
really astounding. I’ve seen all that graduates from Oregon State have gone on
to accomplish and that was really important to me, especially in this job
environment,” said Cayleigh Thalmann, from Portland Community College.

Cayleigh plans to enroll in classes beginning Winter 2017. Both Levi and Hannah
started classes in September and Elena has expressed an interest in taking
advantage of Oregon State’s online post-baccalaureate program while living in
Portland.

Albertson was pleased with the success of the internship program. “Long-term we
could expand even more, even host the internship every term. We could also
extend the opportunity to the Bend campus. I think it has the potential for
growing and this is just the first step,” he said.
