About
=====
:slug: about
:tag: frontpage 
:author: Lucy Wyman
:title: About
:menu: top, About, 1; About, Summary, 1


The Open Source Lab is a nonprofit organization working for the advancement of
open source technologies.

The lab, in partnership with the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science at Oregon State University, provides hosting for more than 160 projects,
including those of worldwide leaders like the Apache Software Foundation, the
Linux Foundation and Drupal. Together, the OSLâ€™s hosted sites deliver nearly 430
terabytes of information to people around the world every month. The most active
organization of its kind, the OSL offers world-class hosting services,
professional software development and on-the-ground training for promising
students interested in open source management and programming.

.. .. image:: /images/edray.jpg
    :scale: 100%
    :align: center
    :alt: OSU President Ed Ray

By enabling innovative projects and distributing software to millions of users
globally, the lab is working to accelerate the growth of high-impact open source
software projects and promote an open source culture of accessibility and
increased productivity around the world. The lab partners with industry leaders
and policy makers to bring open source technologies to new sectors, including
education, health and government.

Under the school of EECS, the OSL and the Oregon State Business Solutions Group
have joined together to create the Center for Applied Systems and Software
(CASS). CASS provides clients with services for every stage of a project:
designing, developing, testing and hosting. This partnership allows each group
to maintain its unique brand while combining their expertise and giving them the
ability and resources to take on bigger and better projects.

To learn more about obtaining services from the lab and explore our active
projects, please visit our Hosting and Development pages. A list of our hosted
projects can be found on our Hosted Communities page. To get updates on the Open
Source Lab, read our Blog page. If you are interested in contributing to the
success of our projects or sponsoring our students' progress, please visit our
Donate page.
