People
======
:title: Staff
:slug: about/people
:menu: top, Organization, 2; Organization, Staff, 1


`Lance Albertson`_
------------------

.. image:: /images/lalbertson.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Lance Albertson

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Director | Cat Herder**

`Lance`_ became OSL director in early 2013. He has managed all of the hosting
activities that the OSL provides for more than 160 high-profile open source
projects since joining the lab as lead systems administrator and architect in
2007. Lance’s involvement in the open source community began in 2003, when he
became a developer and package maintainer with `Gentoo Linux`_. Prior to
joining the OSL, Lance was a UNIX Administrator for the Enterprise Server
Technologies group at `Kansas State University`_. In his free time he helps
organize `Beaver BarCamp`_ and plays trumpet in local jazz group `The
Infallible Collective`_.

Lance can be reached at lance-at-osuosl-dot-org

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

.. _Lance: http://lancealbertson.com
.. _Gentoo Linux: http://gentoo.org
.. _Kansas State University: http://ksu.edu
.. _Beaver BarCamp: http://beaverbarcamp.org
.. _The Infallible Collective: http://infalliblecollective.com


`Jeff Borcean`_
---------------

.. image:: /images/jborcean.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Jeff Borcean

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Community Systems Administrator | Resident Mac-tivist**

Jeff is a computer science major who joined the OSL in June 2014. In his spare
time, Jeff enjoys being outdoors, enjoying the sun. He also enjoys reading and
playing a game of Jenga. Jeff started and ran the OSU chapter of Students
United for Marriage, an initiative to get same-sex marriage in Oregon. In the
future, Jeff hopes to find a way to mix computer science and political/social
justice.

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Github Account:**

https://github.com/borcean

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Aaron Cohen`_
--------------

.. image:: /images/acohen.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Aaron Cohen

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Student Developer**

Aaron was hired in March of 2016 after hearing about the OSL from a former
teacher. With a love for programming and open source, it was a perfect fit for
him. He is currently studying Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and
wants to pursue a career in the robotics field. Aaron can also solve a Rubik's
cube in under fifteen seconds and aspires to compete at the national level.

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Justin Dugger`_
----------------

.. image:: /images/jdugger.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Justin Dugger

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Senior Systems Architect | Wears a Penguin Suit**

Justin joined the OSL in March 2012 after studying and working at Kansas State
University. Justin took graduate level courses in computer science at KSU and
later worked as an applications system administrator there immediately before
coming to the OSL. His work in identity and account management and his
experience with Linux and Ubuntu are assets he'll utilize to benefit the
lab's projects and infrastructure. Justin was involved in the Linux Users
Group at KSU, and he has extensive experience with Java programming. Through
the OSL, Justin is excited to be part of the wider open source community and
to participate in outreach and development.

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Taylor Fahlman`_
------------------

.. image:: /images/tfahlman.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Taylor Fahlman

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Community Systems Administrator**

Taylor, a computer science and vocal performance major, is a student community
systems administrator at the OSL. In his spare time, Taylor likes to sing,
program and strives to brew the perfect cup of coffee. Taylor is a member of
the Kendama club on campus, and in the future he hopes to spread open source
software and education to people around the world.

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Github Account:**

https://github.com/fahlmant

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Megan Goossens`_
-----------------

.. image:: /images/mgoossens.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Megan Goossens

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Developer**

Megan joined the OSL as a developer in May 2014. She is a computer science
major with experience in Drupal development, and primarily plans to focus on
the Protein Geometry Database. Megan enjoys reading in her spare time.

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Github Account:**

https://github.com/MaraJade

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Matthew Johnson`_
------------------

.. image:: /images/mjohnson.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Matthew Johnson

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Developer**

Matthew is a computer science major who joined the OSL in May 2015. He looks
forward to learning more about back end technology while working at the lab. In
his spare time he likes to spend time with his wife and kids.

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Github Account:**

https://github.com/matthewrsj

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Ian Kronquist`_
----------------

.. image:: /images/ikronquist.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Ian Kronquist

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Developer**

Ian joined the lab in November 2013 and is majoring in computer science.
Skilled in the Python and C++ programming languages, Ian is currently working
on the Oregon Virtual School District project. In his spare time he enjoys
reading, programming and attending OSU Linux Users Group meetings.

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Github Account:**

https://github.com/iankronquist

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Annie Lei`_
------------

.. image:: /images/alei.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Annie Lei

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Student Developer**

Annie joined the OSL in March of 2016 after participating in Devops Bootcamp. The
possibilities that come from the collaborative nature of the OSL is what
excited her the most about working here. Outside of the OSL, she enjoys hanging
out with friends and eating cheesecake.

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Lee Leighton`_
---------------

.. image:: /images/lleighton.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Lee Leighton

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Community Systems Administrator**

Lee is a computer science major, and he joined the OSL as a community systems
administrator in May 2014. Lee looks forward to learning more about the OSL
infrastructure and hopes to contribute to Chef. In his spare time, Lee attends
OSU Linux Users Group meetings, and enjoys reading as well as a good cup of
coffee.

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Ken Lett`_
-----------

.. image:: /images/klett.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Ken Lett

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Senior Software Engineer**

Ken began at the OSL in March 2012 after spending over a decade in various
positions on the OSU campus. Since 1999, he has worked professionally as a
systems administrator in the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, completed an undergraduate degree in physics as a student and worked
with Central Web Services as a software developer. Ken sees the OSL as a
synthesis of the wide variety of projects he has worked on at the university
and hopes to use his experience with many different technologies and his dual
perspective as an OSU staff member and alumnus to benefit the lab. Ken's
personal interests are as varied as the technical projects he has worked on;
he is a blacksmith as well as a woodworker and enjoys writing fiction.

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Anthony Miller`_
-----------------

.. image:: /images/amiller.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Anthony Miller

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Community Systems Administrator | The Lady Killer**

Anthony is studying computer science and has worked on networking for the
Apache Software Foundation and other projects. He is skilled in networking and
LAN/WAN administration and joined the OSL to gain hands-on experience with
real-world applications and issues. Anthony enjoys video games and playing
drums in his free time.

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Alex Nguyen`_
--------------

.. image:: /images/anguyen.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Alex Nguyen

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Student Developer**

Alex joined the OSL staff in March 2016 and is earning a degree in Computer
Science. Working at the OSL has given him a chance to turn his hobby into a
paying job. Alex is trained in American and English cuisine and in his spare
time, he likes to exercise, cook, and program for fun.

.. raw:: html

  <br/>


`Tristan Patch`_
----------------

.. image:: /images/tpatch.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Tristan Patch

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Developer**

Tristan, an aspiring NASA programmer or game developer started at the OSL in
June 2015. He is a computer science major and is involved with the Linux Users
Group as well as the Gaming Club. In his spare time he plays games, browses
the internet, and programs personal projects.

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Github Account:**

https://github.com/LyonesGamer

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Elsie Phillips`_
-----------------

.. image:: /images/ephillips.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Elsie Phillips

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Marketing Coordinator | Sticker Tsarina**

Elsie joined the OSL team in June 2014, and is an economics major. At the OSL,
she is responsible for updating the OSL's social media accounts, creating
print marketing materials, and representing the OSL at events. Elsie enjoys
reading, cooking, photography and playing trivial pursuit in her spare time.
After she graduates, Elsie hopes to travel.

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Sean Rettig`_
--------------

.. image:: /images/srettig.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Sean Rettig

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Community Systems Administrator | Safety Officer**

Sean is studying computer systems and joined the OSL in June 2012. He works on
many projects at the lab but particularly enjoys working with the Apache Web
server. In his free time, he works on his own PC gaming community website.

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Alex Taylor`_
--------------

.. image:: /images/ataylor.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Alex Taylor

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Student Developer**

Alex joined the OSL in February of 2016 and is studying Computer Science. He
became interested in the OSL after seeing some of our projects and wanted to
put his skills to good use and apply them here. Alex is interested in
learning more about back-en web development while working at the OSL.

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Aileen Thai`_
------------------

.. image:: /images/athai.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Aileen Thai

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Developer**

Aileen is a computer science and digital communication arts double major who
started at the lab in June 2015. She likes to play video games (Kingdom of
Hearts and Skyrim are her favorites) draw, read, and sleep in her spare time.

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Github Account:**

https://github.com/athai

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Andy Tolvstad`_
----------------

.. image:: /images/atolvstad.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Andy Tolvstad

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Community Systems Administrator**

Andy is a computer science student who joined the OSL in December 2014 as a
systems administrator. In his spare time, Andy arranges a cappella songs for
small groups, plays music and watches Netflix. Andy enjoys playing Skyrim for
PC and is especially interested in Web development.

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Evan Tschuy`_
--------------

.. image:: /images/etschuy.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Evan Tschuy

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Developer | Professional Hacker News Reader**

Evan is a student developer at the OSL. He is a computer science major, and is
currently working on Ganeti, a virtual server management tool. Although Evan
is often busy with schoolwork, in his limited spare time he can be found
climbing the bouldering walls at the OSU Rec Center. Evan hopes to someday
climb some of Oregon’s famous climbing rocks.

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Github Account:**

http://github.com/tschuy

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Jack Twilley`_
---------------

.. image:: /images/jtwilley.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Jack Twilley

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Developer | Maker of Things**

While Jack has spent most of his career working with computers, he is
currently studying food science and technology at Oregon State University. At
the OSL, Jack works on the Protein Geometry Database project and also mentors
students. When he’s not brewing tasty, award-winning mead, Jack maintains a
number of solo open source projects and watches “Doctor Who.”

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Github Account:**

https://github.com/mathuin

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Elijah Voigt`_
----------------

.. image:: /images/evoigt.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Eli Voigt

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Developer | COFFEE COFFEE COFFEE enthusiast**

Elijah is a computer science major who joined the OSL team in June 2014 as a
student developer. At the OSL, Elijah works on Oregon Virtual School District
Central and contributes to Fenestra. Elijah enjoys reading, making games and
writing stories/blog posts in his spare time. Before graduation, Elijah is
hoping to start his own software company.

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Github Account:**

https://github.com/ElijahCaine

.. raw:: html

  <br/>

`Lucy Wyman`_
-------------

.. image:: /images/lwyman.jpg
    :scale: 50%
    :align: right
    :alt: Lucy Wyman

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Front-end Engineer | Open Sourceress**

Lucy, a Junior studying computer science, started working for the Lab in
November, 2013. She designs the front-end for our web-applications, maintains
osuosl.org, and constructs websites for other OSL projects (such as Devops
Daycamp and Beaver Barcamp). Lucy specializes in web development, and is
skilled at HTML, CSS, Javascript and Python. She enjoys programming, running,
and cooking. In addition, Lucy is Vice President of the OSU Linux Users Group,
and leads Devops Bootcamp, and outreach program for budding software
developers.

.. class:: no-breaks

  **Github Account:**

https://github.com/lucywyman

.. raw:: html

  <br/>
