CS312 System Administration Course
==================================
:slug: students/cs312
:menu: Education, CS312, 4

This course was originally created by `Lance Albertson`_ and `Jeff Sheltren`_ in 2009 who both worked at the Oregon
State University Open Source Lab. Lance is currently the Director, and Jeff was the Operations Manager at the time.
Both Lance and Jeff have backgrounds in computer science and system administration. The course was revived in 2015 and
2016 by Lance Albertson and `Jordan Evans`_ with more focus on newer technologies and methodologies.

.. _Lance Albertson: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ramereth/
.. _Jeff Sheltren: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffsheltren/
.. _Jordan Evans: https://github.com/jordane

What is this Course?
--------------------

This is `CS312 - Linux System Administration`_, offered at Oregon State University. The current plan is to offer this
course once per year when OSL staff has time. Students in the course are expected to have at least a basic knowledge of
UNIX/Linux operating systems. OSU students need to complete CS311 (Operating Systems) before they can enroll in this
course. Exceptions can be made for students who can prove a strong knowledge of Linux. For more information, please
consult the `course catalog`_ and `course website`_.

.. _CS312 - Linux System Administration: http://cs312.osuosl.org
.. _course catalog: http://catalog.oregonstate.edu/CourseDetail.aspx?subjectcode=CS&coursenumber=312
.. _course website: http://cs312.osuosl.org

Can I Re-Use/Re-Distribute Course Content?
------------------------------------------

Absolutely! We hope that other people will find this course content useful, and so we have made it available under a
`Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike License`_. Certain resources used are licensed under different
licenses, please check the LICENSES file and/or the individual documents for details. If you do re-use all or parts of
the course materials, we would love to hear about it - please email cs312@osuosl.org to let us know.

.. _Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike License: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/

Why Use a Non-free Book?
------------------------

The book we suggest to accompany the course is **UNIX System Administration Handbook, 4th Edition** by Evi Nemeth et
al. This is an easy to read book that covers a wide range of topics that every system administrator should understand.
Ideally, we would like to create a freely distributable book or set of documents that would cover similar topics as the
book however at the time we didn't see any that covered the topics we were looking for. If you have ideas or
suggestions, please email cs312@osuosl.org and we will consider them for the next revision of the course.

Downloading the Course
----------------------

You are free to download the course materials here:

- `CS312 Course Download (2009) (tar.gz format)`_
- `CS312 Course GitHub Repo`_
- `CS312 Ansible Homework Repo (2016)`_
- `CS312 Chef Cookbook Homework Repo (2015)`_

.. _CS312 Course Download (2009) (tar.gz format): http://osuosl.org/sites/default/files/cs312_linux_sysadmin_files.tar.gz
.. _CS312 Course GitHub Repo: https://github.com/osuosl/cs312
.. _CS312 Ansible Homework Repo (2016): https://github.com/osuosl/cs312-hw-ansible
.. _CS312 Chef Cookbook Homework Repo (2015): https://github.com/osuosl/cs312-hw-cookbook
