CS312 System Administration Course
==================================
:slug: students/cs312
:order: 100

This course was created by Lance Albertson and Jeff Sheltren in 2009 who both
worked at the `Oregon State University Open Source Lab`_. Lance is currently the
Director, and Jeff was the Operations Manager at the time. Both Lance and Jeff
have backgrounds in computer science and system administration.

What is this Course?
--------------------

This is `CS312 - Linux System Administration`_, offered at `Oregon State
University`_. The current plan is to offer this course once per year. Students
in the course are expected to have at least a basic knowledge of UNIX/Linux
operating systems. OSU students need to complete CS311 (Operating Systems)
before they can enroll in this course. Exceptions can be made for students who
can prove a strong knowledge of Linux.

Can I Re-Use/Re-Distribute Course Content?
------------------------------------------

Absolutely! We hope that other people will find this course content useful, and
so we have made it available under a `Creative Commons
Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike License`_. Certain resources used are
licensed under different licenses, please check the LICENSES file and/or the
individual documents for details. If you do re-use all or parts of the course
materials, we would love to hear about it - please email info@osuosl.org to let
us know.

Why Use a Non-free Book?
------------------------

The book we suggest to accompany the course is **UNIX System Administration
Handbook, 4th Edition** by Evi Nemeth et al. This is an easy to read book that
covers a wide range of topics that every system administrator should understand.
The 3rd edition of the book was used when the course was taught. We taught this
course for the first time in Spring 2009, and it was a bit of a last minute rush
to get everything ready in time. Ideally, we would like to create a freely
distributable book or set of documents that would cover similar topics as the
book. We are hoping to offer this course again in the Spring 2014 term and
possibly using and contributing our content to the `Ops School Project`_. If you
have ideas or suggestions, please email info@osuosl.org and we will consider
them for the next revision of the course.

Downloading the Course
----------------------

You are free to download the course materials here:

`Full CS312 Course Download (tar.gz format)`_

.. _Oregon State University Open Source Lab: /
.. _CS312 - Linux System Administration: http://catalog.oregonstate.edu/CourseDetail.aspx?subjectcode=CS&coursenumber=312
.. _Oregon State University: http://oregonstate.edu/
.. _Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike License: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/
.. _Ops School Project: https://github.com/opsschool/curriculum
.. _Full CS312 Course Download (tar.gz format): http://osuosl.org/sites/default/files/cs312_linux_sysadmin_files.tar.gz
